[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So now we're gonna
talk about higher order functions and
callbacks.
So what is a higher order function?
So a higher order function either
takes a function as an argument or
it returns a function as an output.
So we've done a lot of returning functions
when we were going through closures,
now we're gonna talk about
how functions take functions.
And how to master that,
so once we get to deep diving
into our functional programming
stuff we will have those concepts mastered
and it won't be confusing hopefully.
So here's an example of a function
taking a function as an argument.
So this is adding a click event.
And the callback would
be this function here.
So a callback is
a function as an argument.
And then here, this looks familiar to
us cuz we've just been doing it and
this is returning a function
from inside a function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So callbacks.
So here's the example of an ifElse
statement abstracted into a function.
And so in functional programming
we're using functions
rather than procedures I guess.
Or we're using functions as
units of abstraction versus abstracting
over data in functional programming.
And so some silly example is
you could just use an if else
function instead of
an actual if else statement.
And so here's an example of that,
where we are passing a condition and
then we're passing a callback function for
the true condition and
then we're passing a and another
callback for the is false condition
so here for
example we are just passing true.
So the condition is true and
it's going to enter into this block.
So what's going to happen
when this code runs?
>> Speaker 2: Console log true.
>> Speaker 3: It's going to print out
the function The content of a function?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All very good guesses.
What's actually gonna happen is
it's gonna return undefined.
So we're not returning these things,
and we're not calling them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So it's important
to note that when you are doing this,
you need to call it.
And so, when we call a function
that's a parameter or
that's an argument, it's just like
referencing it as a variable.
So if we wanna call isFalse(),
we just add the invocation operator,
also known as two parentheses
next to that function name.
So these are two anonymous
functions that we're passing in.
But we could also pass
in other variable names.
So if we have this function,
stored at log true, you could pass
it then as log true or log false.
And that would work just the same.
Is true would just be log true,
would be this function
and is false would then be log false.
And so if we did this.
What would happen?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's gonna happen?
Kim, do you know?
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What is it?
>> Speaker 4: logFalse?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
it's just gonna logFalse.
>> Speaker 2: Could you
go to the previous slide?
It's a silly question.
You can't put applications
in the parameter.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, so
it will just give you an error.
So, the thing about parameter they're
just like un-initialized variables.
Until you pass an argument.
So just like a variable,
you couldn't call, if we just had var X
here, just an uninitialized variable, you
can't call X because X is just undefined.
So it wouldn't make sense.
We're just here declaring
them as undefined,
just saying if there's an argument,
passed on this place,
its gonna hold a value,
if not its just going to be undefined.
>> Speaker 5: There's question on the,
can you walk-through this step by step,
they're stuck on the ifElse function and
how it works.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah sure.
So, let's do the next slide.
So how our browser with read this,
it would say, okay great.
We're creating a space
in memory called ifElse,
we're gonna store a function there.
This function just happens to have three
parameters by these names which at this
point they have no value, right?
Then we say logTrue is another function,
logFalse is another function,
so then we pass to our ifElse false,
logTrue and logFalse.
So, once we call the function,
we're gonna enter into the function body.
And at this point is when our
parameters get their value.
So, condition is gonna be false,
isTrue is gonna be log true,
is false, is then log false.
So we go into the function body now and
it says if condition.
And so,
what happens when you put a variable or
an expression in between
these two parenthesis.
And it's gonna force it into a true or
false value, into a Boolean value.
And so luckily ours is already a Boolean
value, and so condition is false.
So if it's false it's not
gonna enter into this block,
it will enter into the else block.
However, if this was true, so if we change
this down here to true, so if condition,
so this is the same as saying if
condition is true, if the value at
condition, stored in condition is true,
enter into this part.
And then,
since we're in this part of the block,
this if block, it's gonna call isTrue.
Otherwise if it's false,
it's gonna do the else.
And then once a calls is true, it just
skips to the bottom here and it basically,
you can just imagine it
says return undefined.
So if its true it goes here and
then it skips down there,
which means that this else block is
never entered if this condition is true.
If the condition is false,
then this is never run.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So and then you can read this function
as like if True do this else do this.